Now we've already gone ahead and taken a look at
different services that AWS IoT offers.
But now let's compare some of these services to what we
otherwise might have to do on our own if we were managing our
own infrastructure and rolling our own IoT.
Now first off, I want to just repeat that IoT is complex.
There's a lot of different parts that are moving around that
we need to actually have to create a secure and useful IoT
system for our organization.
And AWS is going to allow us to actually simplify a lot of this by taking
some of these responsibilities on themselves and allowing us to leverage
their services without having to do it all ourselves.
Now all these grayed out services are examples of things
that AWS can actually help us with here.
So let's go ahead and take a look at how AWS does this.
One of the first ways that it does this is by
providing us a serverless IoT platform.
So what is serverless,
just really quickly so we understand what we're talking about here?
Well, something that is serverless is having infrastructure managed for you.
You can also have infrastructure that scales with the requirements that you
have and you're only going to pay for what you're using.
Additionally,
you can focus on the application code and developing new products
rather than having to manage your own infrastructure.
Also the code that you're writing can be triggered by different events,
and this just prevents the code that you write from
just running idly all the time.
Instead,
you're just paying for the code that's actually running in the
given moment when it's triggered by an event.
So what are some examples of not serverless things?
Well this could be anything from having to manage your
own hardware or operating systems,
or maybe you have to over-provision capacity to
make sure that you don't run out.
Further,
you might have to spend some time focused on managing infrastructure
rather than actually writing application code.
Or maybe you have applications that are always running and waiting to
be used and you're getting some waste from that.
Well, these are examples of serverless versus not serverless computing.
When we're actually trying to use AWS IoT,
we're taking advantage of many of the paradigms on the
left side with serverless applications.
But why is serverless so important for IoT applications?
Well let's take a look at this.
One of the first reasons is that there's been a rapid expansion of IoT.
There are expected to be about 75 billion IoT devices by 2025.
This means that you're going to have a lot of important
work to do on trying to keep your applications able to
scale with this amount of expansion.
Additionally,
there's a lot of quick iteration that's expected within IoT and IoT development.
Now it's harder to do that if you have to manage your own infrastructure.
And in fact,
having that infrastructure managed for you is going to allow
you to develop more quickly on top of that.
Additionally,
you're also going to want to reduce the overhead that you're using when
you're developing these applications and rapidly scaling to try and meet the
demand of whatever IoT devices you're working with.
This is going to allow you to actually save money if you're only paying what you
need and not have to spend tons and tons of money provisioning your own hardware
or your own servers or things along those lines.
So outside of being serverless,
AWS IoT also offers other services related to security.
Now we mentioned a few of these earlier relating to authentication,
to permissions, to managing certificates,
and to monitoring and logging.
But I just wanted to point out that trying to do all of
these on your own in your own environments,
on-premises or in other locations, would become a significant burden.
In AWS,
you get this all out of the box and integrated directly
and easily with your IoT applications.
Now kind of because of this and because of other services,
AWS also allows you to have some resilience in your
applications and integrate them with other things.
Now in relation to resilience, the hardware management that AWS offers,
similar to the serverlessness,
essentially means that you 1) don't need to pay for hardware,
and 2) don't have to fix it yourself if and when it does break.
So in the case of disaster or catastrophe,
rather than having to deal with that all on your own,
you have AWS there to help you repair things that go wrong.
Now don't get me wrong,
you still have to make sure that you're dealing with
bugs in your own applications, but the underlying layers of the hardware layer,
for example, are handled for you by AWS effectively,
and it gives you options to do things like distribute your
applications across AWS regions or availability zones so that you
don't have to worry about one particular data center going down and
ruining everything you're doing.
Now in addition to this all being managed for you,
there are lots of other AWS services.
You can use these services to do things like cloud backups,
stream data processing, and many other kinds of workloads.
And these are going to allow you to not only be flexible
with what you want to build on AWS,
but also just do it more quickly and effectively by
leveraging these integrations.
Now finally,
I want to point out that all of these AWS services are
usually going to scale up with your needs.
Now because of this,
those serverless services are going to not need to be provisioned.
You'll just use what you need and be able to do that going forward
when you're writing your AWS IoT applications.
So let's really quickly recap everything we've covered inside of this module.
Now at the very beginning, we looked at what is IoT?
We took a look at some IoT basics and terminology.
We also looked at purposes of IoT and how we can leverage the
Internet of Things effectively in our organizations.
We also looked at risks and responsibilities that we had when
working with IoT to make sure that we're not jumping into it
without knowing what we're in for.
Another portion that we talked about is how AWS fit in with our IoT needs,
specifically how it could do things for us when we needed to
run device software on our IoT devices.
How we could use management services to do things like authentication,
certificate management, and managing devices and things themselves.
And also how we could analyze and enrich some of the data that we
might have coming into IoT using some AWS services.
Now we'll dive into those specific areas more in future modules,
but we just took a quick highlight of them in this module.
We also took a look and compared AWS IoT to self-managed IoT.
And we looked at how AWS IoT is serverless and how this effectively helps us
scale up and down and develop applications more rapidly.
We looked at security and resilience in AWS IoT and how many of the
services that AWS IoT provides are going to leverage that sense of
security that AWS builds into their entire platform.
Finally,
we looked briefly at some integrations and benefits of
why integrations are important for using AWS IoT versus
managing our own IoT platform.
So hopefully this gives you a good starting point to look
at AWS IoT services in more detail. I look forward to seeing you in the next module.